I. Predict Average time for Building Permit issuance: ​

 

1. Background

A building permit is an official approval document issued by a governmental agency that allows you or your contractor to proceed with a construction or remodeling project on one's property. For more details go to https://www.thespruce.com/what-is-a-building-permit-1398344. Each city or county has its own office related to buildings, that can do multiple functions like issuing permits, inspecting buildings to enforce safety measures, modifying rules to accommodate needs of the growing population etc. For the city of San Francisco, permit issuing is taken care by www.sfdbi.org/

 

Why is this important: In the recent past, several posts and blogs highlighted that main discrepancy in demand and supply in real estate industry is due to delays in issuing building permits. Refer: https://www.trulia.com/blog/trends/elasticity-2016/ - Introduces concept of elasticity, and nice scatterplot of various cities. A good data story! https://biv.com/article/2014/11/city-building-permit-delays-costing-developers-tim

 

2. Content

The data was downloaded for the dates ranging from Jan 1st, 2013 to Feb 25th, 2018 using the filter in San Francisco open data portal. This is the exact link: https://data.sfgov.org/Housing-and-Buildings/Building-Permits/i98e-djp9/data There are 43 columns and close to 200k records in the downloaded version (kept here). Description is separately uploaded as dictionary.

 

3. Challenges

May be some of the questions that can be answered are:

 

Can you try predicting permit issue times for various permit types? Which ones matter more? Can you suggest which is the best week day to visit Department of building inspections, based on this data? Can you conclude anything on the city's developments based on this data?

 

Dataset:

https://www.kaggle.com/aparnashastry/building-permit-applications-data/

 

 

 

II. Customer Retention

 

1. Content

"Predict behavior to retain customers. You can analyze all relevant customer data and develop focused customer retention programs."

 

Each row represents a customer, each column contains customer’s attributes described on the column Metadata.

The data set includes information about:

Customers who left within the last month – the column is called Churn

Services that each customer has signed up for – phone, multiple lines, internet, online security, online backup, device protection, tech support, and streaming TV and movies

Customer account information – how long they’ve been a customer, contract, payment method, paperless billing, monthly charges, and total charges

Demographic info about customers – gender, age range, and if they have partners and dependents

 

2. Challenges

A Telecom company observes customer “Churn”

● Estimated loss of income: $140k per month

● Attraction of new ones is more expensive than retention of current ones

● Expectations from this project: Given historical data on loyal and churn customers,

○ Understand relation between churn and certain factors

○ Provide a predictive model that ranks the customers

○ Make recommendations to the business to minimize the revenue loss.

 

 

Dataset:

https://www.kaggle.com/blastchar/telco-customer-churn
